So in the last lesson, we learned how we could add fields to an enum, as well as a custom constructor
to allow us to set data on those fields.
And then we also devised a way of associating symbols with the various values of a suit.
And we left off with getting ready to make it so that when we pass a card into a print line, for example,
we were going to customize the two string method of the card class so that it would print the value
of the card with the symbol.
So let's go ahead and implement that now.
All right.
So here we are in the card class and we already have created two cards from one of the previous lessons.
So really, what we want to do is just make it so that if we were to pass either of these instances
into a system out that print line that it would print the value of the card as well as the suit using
the symbol, though.
So let's see what it does currently.
If we just do a sell out like this and then just pass in the card one and then I'll duplicate that line
and make another one card too.
And then let's just run this and see what it currently does.
OK, so currently it just prints out with the default to string implementation of all objects, which
is to print out the fully qualified class theme and that symbol and then the location in memory.
So that's not at all what we want.
So the first thing we're going to want to do is to override the two string method.
And so we can do that by just making a new method here and then going to do a control o and then I will
choose to string all right.
And now I can do something different for the implementation of the two string method.
So what I think I want is to make it print out something like in the case of the jack of clubs.
I don't know.
Maybe it would say Jack and then the symbol for clubs.
So I'll just say club symbol since I don't know how to type that in easily.
So something like that.
All right.
So let's see, how can we do that?
Well, let's see what would happen first off, if we were to simply return something like this dot rank
dot to string plus this dot suit dot to string.
Let's see what that looks like.
So we can just rerun the main method.
Hey.
I think that does it right, Jack.
And then there's a little picture of a club there and in 10 and a little picture of a diamond there.
Now if we wanted this to look a little nicer, maybe like put a little space in there, for example,
we could do that.
Let's see.
So can you think of some good ways that we could just get a little space in there?
All right.
Let me see, let me think what's what would be my favorite way to do this?
Maybe we'll just I'll just use the contact method instead of the plus.
Can cat space, you know, do one more cat?
Like so.
And do you recall when we were learning about text strings and things, I taught that if you're just
going to concatenate just two strings string one and string two, it might be OK to use the plus symbol
to do that, especially if it's not in a loop or anything like that.
But if you're going to be concatenating more than two strings, you may want to strongly consider using
any other technique that you have learned, such as using the con cat methodology or a string builder
or something of something of that sort.
So that's why, for the first little implementation of the two string that we see here, I just used
the plus symbol.
But now that I'm wanting to put a space in between, I'm not so inclined to use the plus symbol anymore,
even though I could certainly could.
All right, so let's run that one more time.
OK, so there's a little bit of space in there now.
All right now, let's see, there's another thing I want to show you within rooms.
So let's say that we want the ability to create cards in another way.
Also, let's say that we additionally would like to be able to create a card like this card card three
equals new card, and we want the option of being able to use strings also and to be able to say something
like Hearts Comma Queen.
All right.
So we want to be able to do this, but have everything still work the same, right?
So let's see how we can do that.
So this approach that we're trying to do here would be handled by what part of our code can you think
of?
Like, what would we need to add to even allow this to be accepted?
All right, so well, we could add an additional constructor.
So let's go to the constructor of this class, which is right here, and what we can do is simply add
another one.
I'll just create this by hand this time, string suit, string ring, just like that.
Now here's the trick.
What are we going to do with these strings?
I'm not going to add additional fields to this class.
I want to keep using these fields that we already have.
So what we really want to do is to be able to translate from a string to an enum.
And it just so happens that Ingham's have that ability built right into them, and that is done with
another method on the enum called value of.
So this should actually be relatively easy to do.
Now one thing to note, though, I did specify these strings in all lowercase.
And one key of using the value of method on enemies is that the strings should match the constants that
are defined in the Enum.
So not only do we need to translate from a string to an enum, we need to translate from the case of
the string to the case of the constants.
Can you think of how to do that in here?
If you want to go ahead and pause and see if you can work that out.
All right, so let's do this real quick.
So what we should be able to do then is just as with this first constructor where we are taking the
input and then setting it on the fields, we can almost do the same thing, except we'll have to go
through a little bit of translation, right?
So I'm going to do this.
That suit equals.
And then what we can do is suit dot the value of.
We'll use.
Now there's two value of methods.
We want this one that takes a string, which is the name right value of.
And then we will reference this incoming suit.
And remember now when there's any chance for ambiguity or confusion of which variable we are talking
about.
If there are two variables in this case, there's a variable called suit here.
And then there's a variable called suit here.
When we have this kind of situation, that's particularly where the this key word is quite useful.
By using the this key word here, I'm talking about the field variable suit.
This lawsuit means this object, the whole object.
So the suit that belongs to the entire object, which is this suit here.
OK.
Whereas this suit is just a local variable for the method itself.
So anyway, OK.
So what we can do is suit dot to uppercase.
Just like that, and then we'll do the same for the rank.
Rank equals rank, not value of then we'll take the local rank to upper case.
And that should give us what we're looking for now, how will we know if we actually got it?
Well, I think one easy thing we could do is to simply print this card three so we can just come down
here and do one more system that out and pass in Card three.
And let's run this and see if we get a queen of hearts for the third card.
Hey, look at that.
There it is, Queen of Hearts.
So looks like that worked.
All right.
So that's pretty much going to wrap up what we are going to learn about enemies.
So let me just recap briefly.
So enemies are a special type of class.
They are most useful when we need to be able to represent a finite set of values that are related in
some way, like days of the week or symbols of a deck of playing cards or something of that sort.
And because they are still a form of class, we can still implement methods on them.
They can have constructors, they can have fields and properties.
And what's nice is those properties, if we choose to define some on an enum can be associated with
each constant, which is really just an instance of the class itself, right?
So we can associate will go back and just see what that looks like again, real quick.
All right.
So here we are associating symbols which are of type care to the constants of this enum, and these
constants really are just instances of this class called suit, right?
To create an enum instead of using the class keyword, though, we use the enum keyword.
OK.
Let's see if we go into the renck enum.
We also saw previously that we can use interms in if statements and in switches, just like any other
variable type as well in rooms have a built in order index associated with them, and we can access
that value by calling the ordinal method that all enemies inherit.
And we can create an instance of an enum like one of the constants of an enum.
We can go from a string to one of the constants of an enum by using the value of method, which is also
a standard method of enemies.
So they're quite useful and we will probably revisit them and make more use of them in future lessons.
So with that, I'm going to wrap this up and we will move on to some more really interesting topics
in Java's object oriented toolbox.
So I will see you in the next one.